The Anti-Mil GNU-add-on license.

1. Prohibition of military use.

The author of this work prohibits its use in any military application by the
military of any nation on Earth, or beyond, or by any civilian organisation or
individual contracted in any faculty by, and to provide any kind of services to,
the military of such a nation.

2. Military application.

"Military application" is hereby defined to include use of this work for any
task desired or needed by a nation's military, including, but not restricted to,
the following: just testing; planning; reconnaissance; intelligence (ha ha)
gathering; identification or behaviour prediction of civilians, combatants or
non-combatants; autonomous navigation of weapon systems; target selection by
autonomous weapons; firing decisions by autonomous weapons; control of
autonomous robotic dogs, chefs, bar waiters, floor sweepers, toilet cleaners or
"escorts" at military facilities or owned by military personnel; etc etc Etc
ETC.

3. Military contractors.

Civilian organisations and individuals contracted by militaries of nations are
heareby defined in the context of this license to include but not be limited to
scientists and researchers funded by the military of any nation specifically in
the time period that covers the use of this work. Scientists and researchers
receiving military funding in time periods other than the period that covers the
use of this work may use this work, although they are not strictlyÂ speaking
welcome to do so.

4. Plain English.

To make it plain: do not use this work in anything that has anything to do with
armies, war, weapons, death, destruction, fire, bombs, killing, guns, soldiers,
refugees, and so on, unless it's a video game and even then, better don't.

5. Exception regarding removal ov mines and unexploded ordnance.

The use of this software to enable the removal of mines, unexploded ordnance and
any other dangers to civilian life caused by military activity is exceptionally
permitted by this license.

6. Future terms.

A special provision is made hereby for the future inclusion in this license of
additional prohibitions of use of this work in other antisocial and anti-human
applications such as the extraction and burning of fossil fuel, the
identification and behavioural prediction and control of citizens by
governments, the prediction and control of the behaviour of refugees for any
purpose other than providing humanitarian aid to them, and so on. The latest
version of the text of this license shall take precedence over any prior
versions. 

7. License modifications.

The original authors of this license retain the exclusive right to modify the
text of this license.

8. GNU license.

Other than the above terms, the author of this work grants the same rights and
wrongs to the user of this software as are granted by the GNU General Public
License v3.0 ("the GNU license"), except where conflicts between the GNU License
and the terms above may arise in which case this license takes precedence over
the GNU license.
